High in this video we're going to start looking at and application of decorator's.
So if you think back to some videos back we were doing some timing functions we were looking at how
long functions take to run.
So we're going to go back to that same example to a similar example but we're going to do this now using
a decorator instead.
So the first thing we have to do is to create our decorator so let's call the decorator timed it up
close takes the function that we want to decorate as a parameter.
And I'm going to need puft counted.
So I'm going to import it here from time import counter.
I'm not importing this at the module level.
I could but in this case I want to make sure that if I reuse the decorator somewhere else the PO counter
will be available to it.
So I'm just putting the import right in the function itself.
And I also want to use that wraps method that we saw earlier.
So I'm going to import that from funk too.
OK then we're going to find out in a function not in a function is going to be able to run any parameter
any function when we with arbitrary parameters.
So to make it as generic as possible we use these dogs and starstuff.
KW arms approach.
Now I want to decorate this using the wraps decorator.
Now the wraps decorator actually takes a parameter which is the function that's being decorated.
And we'll get to parameterised decorators in an upcoming video and we'll see exactly how that works.
OK so what do we want to do.
Well the inner function is going to want to basically.
Time how long the function takes to run.
So we're going to set up this prankish So we're going to call for calendars and we're going to add that
to our start time then we're going to take the results of calling efen with the arguments that were
passed in.
So now we're building up our closure.
Right.
Because FLN is actually a parameter a variable that is local to time.
So in this closure that we're creating.
Okay.
So then we called lbf counter again to get the end time.
And then if you want elapsed equals can mine is stuck.
Okay.
So we have the elapsed time.
Now what I want to do is I want to print this out.
I want to print out the elapsed time that it took for the function to run and then I'll return the result.
Okay.
So how am I going to do that.
Well I'm I want to print not only a function but I want to print the arguments as well that were used
to call the function.
So we have a nice print statement that says you know Fehn whatever effen was with whatever parameters
arguments were passed then you know took X number of seconds to run.
So I want to basically take ounds and kw and create a string out of them that's comma delimited and
so on.
So this is really just for display purposes.
So I'm going to create a variable Arne's underscore to differentiate it from the.
That's actually the parameter tuple and first thing I want to do is I want to convert this to a list
of strings because the parameters and ends are not necessarily strings that could be integers float
whatever.
So in this case what I want to do is I first want to make everything into a string or the string representation
and then I'm also going to do something similar with KW.
I want a string representation of the keyword arguments which means I need the name equals and the value.
So I need to pick that up.
So how am I going to do that.
Again I'm going to use a list comprehension and here it's the first is going to be a string with the
first element of the string is going to be the key word.
Right the name of the parameter and then the second one is going to be the value.
So I'm going to need to format this using let's say the key name and the value.
And this is going to be for key and value in Kwame's dobbed items.
So the items function is going to return basically a an iterable of tuples of key value tuples.
Right.
Which key is going to be the name of the argument.
V is going to be the value of the argument.
And so now we're going to have basically a list of strings with K equals V where it would have a K and
the was.
Now what I want to do is I want to put all the arguments together like.
So it's going to be a plus.
KW Thanks.
OK.
So now I've got a list that contains my position about arguments and my key value arguments.
And finally I'm going to make an arm's string where I'm going to join essentially all the elements of
the arguments.
Right.
So using the join method on the string and using all args.
So basically this is just going to create a big string that's going to be a comma delimited list of
all the arguments that were passed.
Again it's just for display purposes you don't have to do that if you don't want to.
I just chose to do that just to make it look pretty.
And then finally we're going to say that the function.
So the first element of our string here is going to be the function we'll put that in the format.
And it was called on these arguments right.
With these arguments and we'll say OK.
And here we're going to put in the number of seconds now elapsed is going to be in seconds but it's
going to have some decimal point so I'm want to retain six digits after the decimal point so I'm going
to format it this way.
Seconds to run.
OK.
And then for the parameters of this we're going to pass in while 0 is the function name.
So what is the function name is efen Dondre name.
Then we have the arguments while the arguments is nicely formatted string now.
So we'll give it odds underscore string.
And then lastly the elapsed time which is just elapsed.
So now that's going to print that out.
And the last thing we want to do is to return the result.
OK.
Because remember we ran the function f n and we decorate a function.
Usually we want to return the result of the original function.
So that's what we're doing here.
And then finally we need to return clepe closure.
So we return.
And so there we go.
This is now all decorated.
And there was a lot of extra code simply because I wanted to have this nicely formatted output you.
So now let's go ahead and write a function that are that is going to calculate the Fibonacci numbers.
So remember what the cabinetry numbers are.
You start with 1 and 1.
So these are the first two people now showing numbers and then after that you just sum up the previous
two.
So the next one would be one plus one which is to the next one would be two plus 1 which is three then
three plus two which is five.
Then five plus three which is eight an A-plus five which is 13 21 etc..
OK so these are the Fibonacci numbers.
So let's go ahead and let's write a function that calculates the Fibonacci Fibonacci numbers and I will
assume that the first Fibonacci number is 1.
So I'm going I'm not going to use a zero index.
I'm going to use a one index I'm going to say Fibonacci number one is one who would actually number
two is one Fibonacci number three is two.
And so the way you would refer to you know a sequence of numbers if you hadn't written down would say
you know number one is 1 etc..
OK.
But the thing is we're going to use three different methods to calculate the Fibonacci numbers.
So one is we're going to use recursion.
So that's going to be the first that which is pretty straightforward.
The second one we're going to use a loop.
And then the third one just to look at how we might do this.
We're going to use that reduced function that we've seen in the past.
So we're going to take a look at these three approaches and then we'll time the three different approaches
and see which one works best.
So let's go ahead and let's start using recursion now.
I'm going to define my recursive function falls.
So here we want to calculate the end Fibonacci numbers.
Well if n is less than or equal to 2 we want to return 1.
Right because if end is 1 or 2 and the fascinating number is 1 else if it's greater than 2 therefore
whether we return we return Kelk recursive fib and minus one class calc recursive fib and minus 2 right.
Which is basically adding the previous two together and that now is our next Fibonacci number.
So that's it.
That that is the cause I got to spell it right.
I got tied correctly recursive.
So that's the way to implement a recursive method or algorithm for calculating Banaji numbers it's very
straightforward what I want to do is I want to time how long it takes.
Now the one thing I want to point out is that if I actually decorate calc recursive fib then what's
going to happen inside it's going to call calc recursive fib.
Which one is going to use.
One is going to use the decorated function because that labels the meaning has changed.
So every time would do the recursion.
It's essentially going to call the code you write that in her overhead.
And therefore it's going to time each interim step in here.
So let me show you what I mean by that.
Let's say that I go ahead and decorate this with tined which is decorated that we just wrote.
So if I do that.
And now if I call Kelk recursive let's say three.
You can see that it calculated two and one and then three.
All right if we call this with let's say 6 you'll see that it calculated two and one.
So it was able to calculate three.
But look at everything else that happened in order to calculate six it needed to calculate five and
it needed to calculate for.
So to calculate for it had to calculate two and three and one needed calculate five calculated 3 1 and
2 and then it needed four.
So again we have the.
So you can see that with this recursive function we have a lot of extra calculations that are taking
place because you're right to calculate Sixwire to calculate five.
We also have to calculate for and look for her calculated at least twice right to was calculated.
One two three four five times.
So there's a lot of extra work happening.
So it's a very easy algorithm to write but it's not particularly efficient.
And moreover what I wanted to point out is that when I timed this I'm timing right this calc recursive
fervid because it's being called recursively.
I'm getting the timings for each individual kind of you know nested call and that's not what I want.
So what I want is not to have this timed.
So that's why I defined it this way and here I'm going to calculate I'm going to create another function
called for recursive that we pass in N and what does we're going to do it's just going to return Kelk
recursive Fairbank and.
And this one is going to be the one that I'm going to time.
So basically I'm I just want to avoid timing the recursive function so I just create an outer function
that's not recursive so it only gets called once for any particular number N and then it will use the
record and thereafter.
So I can call third recursive I can type with let's say 6 and we get a value of 8 and you can see we
only had a single print that happened right that that closure was only called once.
OK.
So we have that and we can call it for different numbers.
Let's see the recurrence 20 and because it's called recursive.
OK.
So that's 0.00 2 seconds so it looks fairly efficient.
Let's go ahead and try this on a bigger number for recursive.
Let's do 25.
That's not bad 0.02 but you can see it's starting to get a little longer now.
And let me just copy paste this.
And let's try THAWLEY right to enter in 2025.
Let's try 30 and you can see that already.
You all took again 10 times longer than the previous one.
So let's go ahead and try for recursive let's say 32.
And that again is substantially longer if we take thirty a while we're going to be waiting there for
a little while and took 2.9 two seconds.
How about 36.
What if I try 36 is only one more than 35 right.
What happens there.
We'll just have to wait.
All right.
Four point seven six so you can see that it's getting worse and worse.
It's runtime is getting worse and worse but we're able to time a recursive approach to calculating the
Fibonacci numbers using the decorator that we created here that time decorator.
So now let's go ahead and write a different implementation for Banaji this time we're going to use a
loop.
So we're going to create this feedback loop that's also going to take N and I'm just going to decorate
it right away as well
with our timed decorator and basically the way it works is that we're going to start with the first
two Fibonacci numbers as known numbers 1 and 1 right for Banaji one is one for Banaji 2 is 2.
And then we're going to loop and we're going to calculate the next Fibonacci numbers.
So the next Fibonacci number is going to be one plus one is going to be two and then the one just before
that is one right.
It's for Banaji too.
So we're going to just keep replacing those.
So let's go ahead and do this for I in range.
Now we've already calculated the first two.
We need to calculate the end Fibonacci.
So we're going to do a range of three to an inclusive and so and plus one right we want to calculate
three four five six.
And then the last one and we'll be the for the auction number that we're interested in returning from
the function.
And what are we going to do.
Well we need to basically set Fibonacci to equal to Fibonacci 1 plus Fibonacci 2.
And then when we're done we now need to stick Fibonacci 2 in Fibonacci near Fibonacci 2.
Is this one and Fibonacci 1 is the old Fibonacci 2.
So in any other programming language you'd have to say something like tempo equals Fibonacci 1.
Right.
Two equals that.
And then Fibonacci 1 equals temp because we want the old Fibonacci to number because remember what are
we doing with calculating 1 1.
Then the next step we're calculating to which is one plus one.
But the previous Fibonacci is 1.
So we want one to for the next one we want to calculate the next number is three and then the previous
one is to right.
So we need to maintain this pair every time because now we're going to calculate three and five right.
And then the next one is going to be that 5 and three the eight.
OK.
And so on.
So that's what we're just doing in this loop.
Of course this is Python.
So what we can do.
Remember from a previous lecture we can simply do it this way we can say for Banaji one equals Fibonacci
old for the analogy to and the new Fibonacci two equals the old familiar actually one plus Fibonacci
two we can do this all in one step we don't need that temporary variable.
OK.
And then what do we do.
Well we return the end Fibonacci which is taught in Fibonacci 2.
That's the last calculation that we did and that's it.
That's how we use a loop to implement the Fibonacci sequence.
So now we can time this.
So it's been timed already so we're going to say Fibonacci using a loop do it for let's say 6 and this
is how long it took to run.
If we do let's say one that took a while to 236.
And you can see it goes really really fast much faster than the one using recursion.
And why is the recursive one so slow.
Well it goes back to what we saw here.
We're doing a lot of extra calculations that we don't need.
So we'll look later in your later in the course actually in the few coming videos how we can fix this
problem here by using caching.
And this is a technique called memoization.
We'll take a look at that are in a little bit.
So now we've done our Fibonacci using recursion and then off Bonacci using a loop but of course you
might when you look at this kind of recursive thing right with the loop and so on.
You're probably thinking like wait a minute Python has this reduce function right.
So the reduced function you should be able to use this here to calculate the end for the natural number
and indeed we can.
So let's go ahead and see how we can do that.
Now this is a little more complicated.
And let's just take it a step at a time.
So let's make a few notes here.
So first we're going to start with an equal one.
OK.
And I'm going to put this over here just so that it retains the spacing and everything we do.
So let's say we're looking at any equals one.
Well what we're going to do is we're going to start off with the tuple 1 0 and from that we want to
calculate the sum right.
We want to zero plus 1 is going to be one that should go into the second one.
So this is the if you think of this.
This is the second Fibonacci number and this is the first Fibonacci number when we do that and we reduced
that by adding them together.
Then we're going to get 1 plus 0 in the first position and one which is the original one in the second
in the first position.
Now goes into the second position.
And what's our result going to be our result is going to be the the element at index 0.
OK.
Now if you want.
You could do this with 0 1 and then have 1 1 and so on.
You can reverse that.
But I just want to pick here my final Fibonacci number of the first element of the tuple.
OK so maybe this is a little confusing let's do any calls to so any calls to.
We're going to start with 1 and 0.
Right.
That's all starting kind of tuple.
Then what do we do.
Well we want to add that one and zero together.
And so that's going to become our first element.
And then the first element of the previous step becomes the second element in this step then we do this
again because we have calquing the second Fibonacci number.
So now we have a second iteration.
What are we going to do here.
The same thing.
Our first element is going to be the sum of the previous two elements.
So it's going to be one plus one which is two.
And the second element is going to be the original first element.
So if you think to what we did with the loop this is very similar.
This is no different grid.
And then our result is going to be you know at index 0 which is going to give us 2.
Right.
And this is not a very good way of writing this.
So this is the tuple at 0 which is 1.
And this is the tuple at 0 which is 2.
Let's let's do at least one more.
Let's do any calls 3.
So for any call 3 again we're going to start with 1 and 0.
And we're going to sum up.
That's going to become one and then take the first element.
That's the second element.
Now we do this again right next iteration.
Sum up we get two.
And then the first element was one that becomes the second element and we do it one more time.
The sum of two and one is three.
And the first element was two.
So now that becomes our second element right.
And our result is t 0 butches 3.
Let's do one more close one.
So 1 and 0 will go to 1 and 1 just as before I can type 2 and 1 right.
Then two plus one is three so we have three and then two and then one more time.
Three plus two is five.
And the previous element was three.
So we put three in his K and then our result is the tuples all the element at the zero position of that
table which is 5 k.
So there you go.
This is how we're going to essentially reduce.
Right.
If you think of what the reduction is we start with one comma's 0.
Our reduction is going to have to produce 8 tuple.
So we start with a tuple and we're going to reduce it to another tuple where the first element of the
tuple will be the sum of the elements in the previous tuple and the second element will be the new tuple
will be the first element of the old tuple OK.
And then how many times do we want to do this.
Well if you want to calculate any equals four you saw we did one two three four steps right for equals
three with three steps.
So we're going to need to repeat this and times so how are we going to do this.
Well in general what's happening is we have this we have the previous value would be let's say the coupal
a comedy and the new value is going to be the tuple Plus the comma.
Right.
This is just rewriting in a more general form.
What we're doing here.
Right so this is what we're doing.
So the new value is going to be that.
How does the reduce function works well it needs a function and the function will be passed to values
the the current value in the old value.
Right.
That's essentially what's happening.
But from what.
From a sequence.
Well we don't have a sequence here.
So we're going to play a little trick.
We're going to use a range function that's going to generate a sequence of and integers and we're not
actually going to use those integers at all.
We're only going to use them in the reduced function to make the reduced function work and times right.
Repeat end times.
So let's see how we might do something like that.
So from phunk tools can pull reduce.
So that's the first thing we need to do we need to we all grab the ridges function.
Next we're going to say and reduce And we're also going to time it.
So that's decorate it.
So the fibered use needs again.
And and our initial work is going to be zero come a 1 0 1 0.
OK.
And then what are we going to do.
Well we're going to create this dummy kind of iterable range and it will have any elements in it from
zero and minus one.
I don't really care what the actual integers are in this thing.
I just need a list or an iterable that's going to have an element because when I run produce I'm going
to run it on that list but remember that redos so firm n equals revues.
Now what does reduce take us parameters.
Well it's going to need some function.
So let's leave that blank just for a second.
Then it needs to iterate over a iterable.
So we'll use dummy for the iterable.
And then what does it need.
It needs an initial value.
So I'm going to take initial Right.
That's our initial value here.
And then what we want to do now we want to create this reduction function.
So lambda we can use a lambda expression and it's going to take in the previous whatever the previous
thing was and the next element of the of the Arabic.
Now what are we iterating with iterating dummy.
So the next element of the iterable is going to be this.
And here what's the previous value.
While in this case here our previous first previous value is going to be initial Because that's what
we said to be the initial.
And what is the initial.
It is a tuple.
And what do we want this lambda to return.
We wanted to return a tuple as well.
And what you did return as a tuple.
Well it should return a tuple.
That's going to contain the previous 0 plus previous one.
OK so it's going to sum up the previous first and second elements of the tuple.
And what does it return here for its second element.
The first element of the previous So previous is zero.
And then we put these on different lines.
So you'll see how the reduces working right.
It's a little odd because we're not actually using this at all and is what end is coming out of dummy.
The first element that gets returned.
That goes into previous is going to be initial Because we say hey put that in front of everything else.
So initial is in front of everything else.
It's the tuple.
What comes after that in each iteration.
Whatever's in this iterable which is just a list of you know it's not a list it's an iterable of and
integers from 0 to and minus one.
But you'll notice we're not using it at all.
So this is just a fairly standard trick of being able to use Reduce but without actually caring what
the trouble is.
So at the end of the day what do we get.
Once we have that reduced function completed what we have a tuple and what we want to return.
Well we want to return Furber and 0.
We want to return the first element right.
It's that first element here that's our result.
So there we go that's it.
That's now off the Banaji sequence but done using a reduced function.
And now let's time it because this was kind of complicated.
Right.
But the whole Python has a reduced function.
It's it's there it's useful it's it's kind of cool to use so we probably should use it.
And you know why use a boring old loop.
Right.
Which is easier to understand.
You know we know that the loop is faster than recursion.
So yes recursion you know is very elegant in terms of an algorithm.
The loop is just a boring thing it's like while it's a loop you know you really probably should be using
reduce instead.
Right.
So let's go ahead and time.
Let's go ahead and run this and let's do reduce of let's say 35.
And it took zero point 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 3 seconds to run.
So that's quite efficient.
What about the loop.
Efficient was that one.
While it seems actually faster.
So the plain old loop is faster than the reduce.
I wonder if that works.
You know as we start looking at higher numbers let's do a hundred.
OK that's pretty fast.
They reduce our food loop right.
Lonnie's the loop method and that's faster.
All right.
So two things here.
One is you can see how our decorator could be used to time any function that we want.
It's pretty straightforward in order to do it.
We just decorated with the time decorator The other thing too that I want to point out in this example
is that just because Python has something that's cool or more complicated doesn't mean you should use
it.
Right.
In this case yeah.
I mean you know from a timing perspective that's approximately the same.
I mean this one is definitely the loop is definitely faster.
Right.
We take maybe a thousand.
You know it's really fast.
Either one of those is really fast on maybe 10000.
Let's go.
Well I had a thousand ten thousand.
So let's do 10000 riots again 0.00 for seconds that's really fast.
And this one 0.00 to about half the time.
So you probably don't really care one way or the other here.
It runs so fast.
What if you're repeating this kind of operation thousands and thousands of times in your program then
the fact that this runs about 50 percent faster than the reduced can makes your kid still making a big
difference.
So just because something is available and is cool and is more advanced than boring loops a lot of people
talk about while loops are boring.
We should do this using this fancy you know functional approach.
Yeah you can but it's not always the best approach.
The thing that I want to point out in I me delete that because those numbers are huge.
OK I want to point out with time is that it's really only running these tests one time.
Right.
And so we if we really want to try and time our function we probably should do more than just one test
right.
Maybe we do something like will I in range.
And maybe you know we run this 10 times and then we just call let's say fib a loop of let's say you
know 100 and you run it 10 times and then you take a look at all these numbers you can see they're not
always exactly the same you know 8 9 7.
So you want to run it multiple times and averages.
So of course we could definitely do this by taking our time.
That creative and rewriting this so we could do this.
And then instead of just taking this result in the single elapsed time maybe we do something like this
where we say elapsed total equals zero elapsed count equals zero.
And then where do they fall in range let's say 10.
Right.
And we're going to do this.
OK.
And here's where I'm going to do once I've calculated the elapse immensely elapsed total plus equals
elapsed and then elapsed callant quasi equal 1 and then over here.
When before I print out the elapsed I'm going to calculate the elapsed average that's going to be the
elapsed total divided by the elapsed count K and then I'm going to calculate here and say it was the
elapsed average so we could certainly do this and I'm going to just copy paste this one over here.
OK so now we've decorated the function.
Now we won't see that this sexually has run ten times so let's go ahead and say here.
Print running.
Iteration.
Whatever that number is
correct.
Let's do it this way and let's now decorate for produce with that.
And let's call FEBE redos of one hundred.
OK.
Now you can see it's running all these iterations and then this was actually the average elapsed time
not the actual elapsed time between.
Now we still return the result because we're storing the result and at the end of the day we return
the result.
But there's a problem here.
It's not a problem.
But my turn is hand-coded.
It's like wow OK what if I don't want to have 10 hand-coded What could I do.
And it's like wow OK so maybe you know I'm passing the count over here the the you know how many times
it's supposed to be repeated and then here I can just you know give it count.
And so now I have a decorator that has two parameters F and count.
Well the problem is that how do I write timed here knows that the function is going to be footbridges
How do I tell it that I want to run this let's say you know 15 times.
That's not going to work right.
Because time is missing one required positional argument count.
So we'll get to that in upcoming videos.
And this is what I mean by having parameterised on decorators and you see that we've actually used parameterised
decorator's before this one right here.
This ad wraps fan so we can decorate our function this way.
Now we could do it this way.
Right.
We could say Furber underscore reduce sequel's time look fib underscore reduced and let's do that 15
times.
OK.
So that will work except for reduced is not reduce.
Sorry.
So this will work.
Now we can call FEBE reduce let's say of 100 and it's going to run it 15 times.
So that's fine but the problem doing it this way is we can no longer use this method over here of decorating
our functions.
So we'll get to that later.
I just wanted to point that out right away that if we decorate our functions using this this will work
this approach will work but if we want to use the shorthand notation that won't work and we'll have
to figure out something else.
All right.
So thanks for watching.
And also in the next video.